Troubleshooting - Add State Lock error (#819)
terraform-google-modules/terraform-example-foundation: docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md

try

```bash
gcloud alpha billing projects link projects/some-project --billing-account XXXXXX-XXXXXX-XXXXXX
```

If output states `Cloud billing quota exceeded`, you can use the [Request Billing Quota Increase](https://support.google.com/code/contact/billing_quota_increase) form to request a billing quota increase.

### Terraform Error acquiring the state lock

**Error message:**

```text
Error: Error acquiring the state lock
```

**Cause:**

> This message means you are trying to execute a Terraform command with the [Terraform State locked](https://www.terraform.io/language/state/locking).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This message means that you are trying to apply a Terraform configuration with a remote backend that is in a [locked state](https://www.terraform.io/language/state/locking).
```

If the Terraform process was unable to finish due to an unexpected event, i.e build timeout or terraform process killed. It will keep the Terraform State **locked**.

**Solution:**

> Keep in mind that after removing the Terraform State lock you will need to [review and manipulate](https://www.terraform.io/cli/state#manipulating-terraform-state) your Terraform State and maybe [import](https://www.terraform.io/cli/import#import) some resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that after removing the Terraform State lock you may need to [review and manipulate](https://www.terraform.io/cli/state#manipulating-terraform-state) your Terraform State and maybe [import](https://www.terraform.io/cli/import#import) some resources.
```

> Here are some sample commands on how to remove the Terraform State lock.

Reviewer: I would rephrase this in the context of unlocking a single root config like https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-example-foundation/tree/master/2-environments/envs/development. So you can guide the user through git clone repo, cd to env, change backend if needed, run tf locally to confirm state is locked, locally unlock state, do a plan to validate no diff or look at import/state rm for massage the state.

Reviewer: Our last instruction could also be to review what caused the lock to happen. If this was due to a build time our recommend increasing build timeout https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-example-foundation/blob/master/build/cloudbuild-tf-apply.yaml#L15

Author: done

- Update `<YOUR-REPO-DIR>` in the command below to navigate to repo directory of the step you got the error, it should be `gcp-org`, `gcp-environments`, `gcp-networks`, `gcp-projects`, or `bu*-example-app`.
- Update `<YOUR-FOUNDATION-EXAMPLE-DIR>` in the command below to get the backend state bucket and update `backend.tf` file.
- Run `terraform init` to initialize terraform with the terraform state from gcs bucket.

```bash
cd <YOUR-REPO-DIR>
export backend_bucket=$(terraform -chdir="<YOUR-FOUNDATION-EXAMPLE-DIR>/0-bootstrap/" output -raw gcs_bucket_tfstate)
for i in `find -name 'backend.tf'`; do sed -i "s/UPDATE_ME/${backend_bucket}/" $i; done
terraform init
```

- Run the command below to remove the Terraform State lock, it will ask for a confirmation and you will be able to run terraform commands again.

```bash

> terraform force-unlock $(terraform apply 2>&1 > /dev/null | grep "ID:" | sed -e 's/.*[^0-9]\([0-9]\+\)[^0-9]*$/\1/')

Reviewer: We should just ask the user to manually get the lock id from the apply they ran to validate that the state is still locked. State unlocking can be dangerous if not carefully reviewed and I am weary of adding more automation.

Reviewer: @felipecrescencio-cit I think we can reword this part

Author: Done

```

**Notes:**

- The remove Terraform State lock command **does not** change anything in your state.
- If you got a Terraform State locked error **most of the time** the Terraform State will be inconsistent.

> - It is a **strong recommendation** to review the Terraform State before trying to continue on the step you stopped.

Reviewer: I would link to upstream docs rather than having this info here
https://www.terraform.io/language/state/locking#force-unlock

Author: Done
